we can talk to the man himself good
morning captain Tom Naga here in the
breakfast studio on behalf of BBC
Breakfast and everyone who has
celebrated your achievements across the
UK let me wish you a very happy 100th
birthday thank you very much
how does it feel hundred hundred years
old today feels any different yesterday
I don't know what you meant to feel like
when you get to be a hundred I've never
been 100 before so I really I really
can't tell you what differences from
yesterday or today or maybe tomorrow but
I must say I'm absolutely delighted with
all the people like you who've come to
wish me I'm many happy birthday it
really is absolutely awesome the amount
of people who've been so kind to make
those remarks thank you all very much
well I can tell you on behalf of me the
honor is mine being able to wish you a
happy birthday
on this programme are you feeling fit
and well a little bit cool otherwise I'm
fine captain Tom it's Charlie here on
the studio may I join everyone and
sending best wishes on your birthday
many many people from around the world
your friends and your families have said
happy birthday we have a special message
for you now from the Prime Minister
captain Tom I know I speak for the whole
country when I say we wish you a very
happy 100th birthday your heroic efforts
have lifted the spirits of the entire
nation you've create a channel to enable
millions to say a heartfelt thank you to
the remarkable men and women in our NHS
who are doing the most astounding job
there's a tradition going back some
years now where the Prime Minister takes
a moment each day to thank someone for
their service to others by recognizing
them as a point of light captain Tom
that is exactly what you are a point of
light in all our lives so on behalf of
the whole country thank you and have a
very special 100th birthday captain Tom
can I ask your reaction please from the
prime minister is really outstanding
because he has been doing so well and
look what his reducer or carriers
produced we've got another boy into the
country well done Prime Minister thank
you very much for your message you know
only you captain Tom could turn someone
wishing you a Happy Birthday
into a thank you to them and a well done
to them you've also had letters from
Prince William from the Duchess of
Cornwall as well how did that feel
receiving those it's hard to say because
to go to letters from the royal family
really is something which are never ever
anticipated because they are to me such
good people and you are doing so well
for them thank you very much
all of them captain Tom please stay
listening because we have Michael Ball
who is been with you I know a lot
through this journey and Michael I
believe there's something you would like
to do and say to captain Tom this
morning this is such an honor
everybody join in happy birthday to you
happy birthday to you happy
captain - happy birthday - thank you Oh
Chung it's an amazing day and mate
you're the only man who would get me
into a smart shirt tie and suit lockdown
I love the bones of you sir and thank
you for letting me be part of this
journey with you mean you should I mean
it's just I just I don't always wear one
but I think we're doing very well
together looking like we do today we do
scrub up nicely Tom and when we do our
arena stadium tour together I think this
is the look for us nicely you scrub up
quite nicely like him you know and when
you do your big tour you're a big arena
tour singing together when you sing
together on your big tour you'll look
like this right oh yes I will
smashing Tom thank you Michael there you
go Michael you've got a partner for a
new arena tour who needs in just a few
weeks from that moment when you saw
captain Tom to inspire you to help get
you get him to number one that we'd be
here now yeah it was the most it's the
most beautiful story in the most bleak
of times isn't it and he's given us as
the prime minister said that a beacon of
hope a beacon of light it's it's
wonderful I'm so proud to be part of it
can I ask you captain Tom as well and
Hannah lovely to see you as well this
morning in the beautiful sunshine it's
so appropriate for this special day Tom
can I ask you about your new honour
which is your rank of colonel what does
that mean to you
well I must say I was I was very moved
by that because you get the owner rank
of colonel in in my regiment is
something which you would never ever
anticipate I really am all nerd about
that and I alone II can't read it the
beauty people public it really is
something special to be able to say on
record and if people called me Colonel
the great what date so just just help us
Tom you would now like to be an onus
captain Tom or Colonel Tom I think well
I'm still captain Tom but I really am
but if people choose to call me colonel
well thank you very much it's been we're
gonna be talking to you for the next
half an hour
captain colonel lovely man that's what I
would say so just looking straight ahead
they're both are telling beautiful to
fly and all that everybody listen now to
the legend isn't yeah the Huracan expand
fire
[Music]
so they're gonna be changing formation
position now John and as they position
just behind us into a national position
so they'll be alongside each other to
run through for a second pass heartless
got the hurricane flown by supporting
leader Mark Liscombe and the Spitfire
flown by flight leftenant and increased
100 foot yep
[Music]
you'd normally have a cracked summer
coming
we were saying maybe not as busy as you
were hoping to be absolutely
we talked briefly about the difference
between flying the new and the old
what are they like to fly utterly
utterly peaceful I mean they are felt by
tricky and I think school need a disco
mentioned earlier that certainly on the
ground they do require your full
attention but once they're up they are
possibly tonight for a real pilot
aircraft I can see why they have the
reputation they do
[Music]
it's so lovely to see captain Tom where
he fingers fly overhead you're going to
come around again for a third pass you
have a another aircraft that often flies
with them tell us about that so we have
a lancaster as well which only two
flying in the world so incredibly lucky
and been basting linkage shirts have a
lancaster in the heart of bomber county
is is something really special and i
know the whole of the UK public love
seeing her during the summer yeah a
fixture at air shows aren't they right
across the UK in the summertime and it's
really when you come into your own
what is detector give them flying an
incredible amount and really we have a
small team of thirty engineers who work
tirelessly through the winter and the
summer to keep these beautiful aircraft
flying so who can show them in front of
millions of people throughout the
country over the year the summer months
and one it seems a bit like triggers
broom are they a little bit like you
might have heard the analogy before john
yes okay
we are about to hear we hope alive
special message
the captain Tom from one of the pilots
[Music]
there we go
wonderful thank you very much yeah
really really wonderful to see him and
as much as that the sight of them is
fantastic the sound of them is fantastic
tape and I think the both of them go
beautifully hand-in-hand the sight and
the sound there's nothing else quite
like it and Tom from all of us in the
Air Force thank you very much indeed for
everything you've done
a very happy hundredth birthday thank
you very much yes let's walk around
there that just get a quick word there's
one thing that I would say about I'm one
of the few people here who've seen
hurricanes and Spitfires flying fasting
anger is fortunately today they're all
flying peacefully
that's Dustin one of the outstanding but
I remember when they were flying not
with peace but with anger yeah of course
and it's so incredible to see them here
today it is a special message as well
than wishing you a happy birthday it's
still exciting to see them for you yes
it really is yes it really is fantastic
you know and Thank You / - thank you
the pleasure is all ours Tom
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC dog code at UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News